EXPERIMENT-08 
AIM: Integrate Kubernetes and Docker 
Objective: To integrate Kubernetes with Docker for orchestrating containerized 
applications using Pods, Deployments, and Services. 
 
Software Requirements 
 Docker installed (https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) 
 Kubernetes installed (Minikube or Docker Desktop with Kubernetes 
enabled) 
 kubectl command-line tool 
 Code editor (VS Code or any) 
 Sample containerized application 
 
The Kubernetes server runs as a single or multi-node cluster, within Docker 
container(s). This lightweight setup helps you explore Kubernetes features, test 
workloads, and work with container orchestration in parallel with other Docker 
functionalities. 
Docker Desktop includes a standalone Kubernetes server and client, as well as 
Docker CLI integration that runs on your machine. 
The Kubernetes server runs locally within your Docker instance, is not 
configurable, and is a single-node cluster. It runs within a Docker container on 
your local system, and is only for local testing. 
Turning on Kubernetes allows you to deploy your workloads in parallel, on 
Kubernetes, Swarm, and as standalone containers. Turning on or off the 
Kubernetes server does not affect your other workloads.
 
Lab Procedure  
Install and turn on Kubernetes 
1. Open the Docker Desktop Dashboard and navigate to Settings. 
2. Select the Kubernetes tab. 
3. Toggle on Enable Kubernetes. 
4. Choose your cluster provisioning method. 
5. Select Apply to save the settings. 
 
This sets up the images required to run the Kubernetes server as containers, and 
installs the kubectl command-line tool on your system at: 
/usr/local/bin/kubectl (Mac) 
or  
C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker\resources\bin\kubectl.exe (Windows). 
 
Docker Desktop for Linux does not include kubectl by default. You can install it 
separately by following the Kubernetes installation guide. Ensure 
the kubectl binary is installed at /usr/local/bin/kubectl. 
When Kubernetes is enabled, its status is displayed in the Docker Desktop 
Dashboard footer and the Docker menu. 
Docker Desktop does not upgrade your Kubernetes cluster automatically after a 
new update. To upgrade your Kubernetes cluster to the latest version, select 
Reset Kubernetes Cluster 
You can check which version of Kubernetes you're on with: 


 kubectl version 
 
 
Using the kubectl command 
Kubernetes integration automatically installs the Kubernetes CLI command at: 
/usr/local/bin/kubectl on Mac and 
C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker\Resources\bin\kubectl.exe on Windows.  
 
This location may not be in your shell's PATH variable, so you may need to type 
the full path of the command or add it to the PATH. 
If you have already installed kubectl and it is pointing to some other 
environment, such as minikube or a Google Kubernetes Engine cluster, ensure 
you change the context so that kubectl is pointing to docker-desktop: 

kubectl config get-contexts 
kubectl config use-context docker-desktop 
 
Tip 
If the kubectl config get-contexts command returns an empty result, try: 
 Running the command in the Command Prompt or PowerShell. 
 Setting the KUBECONFIG environment variable to point to 
your .kube/config file. 
 
Verify installation 
To confirm that Kubernetes is running, list the available nodes: 


 kubectl get nodes 
 
If you installed kubectl using Homebrew, or by some other method, and 
experience conflicts, remove /usr/local/bin/kubectl. 
 
